# 1. Design log: Design is hard

Design is hard.

As part of an unannounced effort with friends to bring a long overdue personal project to life - I worked on the design of a backend for a social networking site. 

I like design. It's fun and fully engages my mind in a way I find pleasurable but it. is. hard. What makes software architecture hard for me is the inevitable neuroticism of questions that arise and the unspoken art of knowing which question to answer. Flexibility or Consistency? Usability or Resilience? Have I forgotten something? Have I added too much? Is this easy enough for the team to implement? Is this too naive?

And then that existential question - will this work out?

To some extent; I understand why early-stage career programmers like myself would shy from contributing to design. You might have a cognitive affinity for it but design is responsbility. It's you putting your soul out there in much the same way an artist or a writer might pour their life into their work. Except it's technical and a failure is a failure not just some critic's opinion. Your design  could cost the team morale, money or worse. 

_Okay I'm overthinking and this is a pet project but I haven't just had these thoughts working on personal projects and wrtiting about it makes me feel better._

Nevertheless, as in art so in programming; you don't get better by hiding your work - however good or bad it might be. I've been trying to implement that more especially after [reading literature talking extensively about the phenomenon]().

Design is hard but it demands that those who wield it have confidence. It, and especially software engineering will be unforgiving in it's validation but good taste comes with experience and you don't get experience if you don't try.

What are some good or bad backend design experiences you've had? Email me your thoughts over at hello@malawianprogrammer.com 