# 2. Dev log: Wrangling with the domain layer.

One thing that stuck with me from exploring "Clean Architecture" is this idea of separation of concerns. Apart from a general small cognitive dislike of having unrelated things um .. "mix"; it really does make the structure of your software flexible. It was also nice to discover how nicely it fit and enabled my personal SDLC process. I gather requirements and spend some time thinking about the business logic in the Domain layer. Iterate on app flow designs in the Application layer and test my assumptions by perfoming some soft tests in the Presentation layer (through the power of interfaces!) long before I spend time implementing my ideas. And should I decide okay maybe I can switch out that library or heck even change the underlying database, I can do that without affecting the structure of the application in the Infrastructure layer. 

So yes. I love a good abstraction when I see one.

The names and decisions of what goes into what layer is something that I've left to evolve with time as I change my mind about previously held assumptions. 

When starting a new project; sometimes you have those tasks that might not feel fun but need to be mostly done well at the beginning. For me that is wrangling with the domain layer. Sigh. I tend to feel satisfied when I finish but it's not a layer I like to come back to. If it's a data intensive application; I know a change here will mean a database migration in the Infrastructure Layer or even a rethinking of how the entire Application works. SO it's important I get this layer mostly right (I'm a software engineer not a prophet). 

But man requirements gathering is boring. 