# Life update: 2024, Advent of Code, new year resolutions and other interesting things.

It's been a while since I last wrote for my blog - it's almost a bit embarrasing to be honest. So to (sort of) explain my absence; decided to write a bit of an update post to open up the year 2025.

First - 2024. This year has been a definitive for me as a programmer. I affirmed my foray into backend development, got my first permanent role as a software developer and also began learning a new programming language. Oh yeah, I also attempted Advent of Code.

Let's talk about that.

In what has now been an almost 3 year ritual, every year in december; I attempt a collection of problems created by Eric Wastl in what is known as the Advent of Code. This year, despite an almost herculean effort - I managed to get (drumroll please) _3 stars!_. I attempted 5 days (only completed 1 and a half) and will be sure to post my attempts on Github. When I check my stats on Advent of Code it shows that it is 2 more than the number of stars I got in 2023. But ofcourse all that pales in comparison to the 12 stars of 2022. From my lessons attempting Advent of Code, I can definitely say that do not underestimate the time needed; particularly if like me you have a day job as well. I mostly attempted over lunch, sometimes in the evenings or even on weekends but often had to stop solving a problem midway to attend to a different matter. Advent of Code problems aren't necessarily difficult but due to the fiendish little extra conditions Eric Wastl sometimes adds, one has to take enough time to think through and plan. I jumped into a lot of the problems this year and boy did I suffer seeing multiple answers continously get rejected. In some ways it taught me something important about programming as you grow older. When young, you just throw anything at the problem and can sometimes achieve results with this sort of brute force approach. But as you meet bigger and bigger problems - brute force techniques prove maladaptive and one has to now begin to construct and reason about their own logic before they even implement a solution instead.

Other than that, like a bunch of folks; I had a number of new year resolutions coming into the new year. My overall goal this year is to transition from programmer to software engineer. I'll explain what I mean by that in a future blog post but for now just know that it means I'll be reading a lot more and trying to adopt other habits other than just programming to engineer better software. I became convicted of this in the first few months of my permanent role when I faced challenges I did not meet in my internship. Another resolution is to write a blog post at least once a month here, My goal is to hit publish at the end of the month or near the end of the month.

Outside of programming; I became a little more serious about a smaller hobby of mine ie chess. By serious, I mean I have so far been able to clock 100 games on lichess. Honestly, I am very _very_ far from good but it's a lot of fun. Chess in a way is a lot like programming. Cognitively satisfying, difficult to master but with the type of feedback loop that can have people hooked on it despite the setbacks they face. If you play; you can always follow my @mwprogrammer on lichess.

Until the next blog post;

God bless.
