# My tech stack for 2025 plus life update.

Can I still say happy new year in february? Lol. Being the first post published for 2025; it felt fitting to do so but we're a month in so perhaps not. I can imagine there are a lot of questions; where have you been, what have you been up to, are you alive etc. I hear it, I hear it. My last blog post was all the way in september and whilst I've been getting an idea here, creating a draft there - I lowkey abandoned my blog for a bit. Never fear though; I'm back and to make up for my silence; have prepared this blog to sort of explain where I am plus provide some life updates so buckle up! It will be a long one.

First the life update.

I got my employed for the first time as a fulltime software developer late last year in october - being hired as a software developer at NBS Bank. I don't take it for granted; particularly in this Malawian job market which isn't always so reliable in providing opportunities for full-time purely programming roles. I'm also grateful that I landed a permanent role so early too (after only about 1.5 years of internships). In many ways, it's a shift from being an intern (for one, I now need to maintain all of the code I wrote during my internship!). There are bigger projects, bigger challenges and new skills to learn. It's also fascinating being a programmer in corporate, particularly in the financial industry.

The best word I can use to summarize the experience is that is it is very fast-paced. I've improved but one thing that I definitely struggled with was the work-life balance. Working during the week, working on weekends, catching up on work at night before making it to work around 7 (9-5? This is corporate, it's 7:30 till you can sneak out at 5pm lol). Apart from the impact on my social life, a lot of my personal projects kind of stalled too. Still, to paraphrase Queen SheCoder (aka Innocencia Ndembera), "You won't be able talk about all the cool stuff you're working on at work cause of NDAs so don't neglect working on your personal projects cause that it all you'll be able to talk about anyway". I now cancel less on my social commitments and I mean, this post is here so you can see I'm kind of working on my personal projects too.

Nevertheless; I've still decided to sort of withhold full judgement on my corporate experience till I've allowed myself to grow in it for at least a year. In as much as there have been a few times I found the experience daunting, I'm also aware that this is still a valuable experience for an early-career programmer like myself. There are _a lot_ of interesting technical problems, I'm part of a competent team and there is great support for ideas if you have the skill (and time) to execute them. Sure I sometimes get equal parts excited and exhausted when I see a new email with a new proposed project lol but if you ever get the chance to be a programmer in a bank or any other financial service - do it. If you can make it there; you can probably make it anywhere.

Next. Let's talk about my tech stack for 2025.

I'm stealing this idea from another friend Maxwell Kapezi's blog where he talked about what technologies and skills he's focusing on this year. As a CS Major, particularly one from UNIMA (much love to the rest of you) - you kind of come out of University with this generalist potential to do _anything_. I won't lie, when I first graduated I dabbled in a bunch of stuff. Web development, mobile development, even a brief stint in data science. I knew that I wanted to work on big problems and that I wanted to build stuff. My thinking that time was I was going to improve my programming skills at work and then go to graduate school to contribute my skills to a big problem like building automated pipelines for NLP systems in low-income African countries or something or the cool stuff over at GitHub Next. One thing my mum told me however was that I should try to get some work experience before rushing to graduate school. I thought she was just being cautious but she was right.

The first decision I've made is what type of development I've decided to focus on. Without a doubt; it is building and working with "backend" systems. This is the first thing I'm thanking my mum for; I would never have discovered the great big world of the backend had I not ventured first into getting work experience; particularly at my current job. I could dedicate an entire article to what I like about this type development but long story short - the backend is chockful of interesting problems and building backend systems is a fascinating mix of creativity, systematic thinking and problem solving. If frontend development is all about coming up with new ideas; backend development is the adventure you take figuring out to make those ideas work. It's the engineering work to figure out how to get a man on the moon. I love it.

Next is something a little bit conceptual. I have made a decision to transition by the end of the year from mere programmer to software engineer. What do I mean by that? Well; in short - I'll basically be upheaving my skills so that I'm not just someone that can build systems that work but also systems that are engineered well. I became convinced of thss particularly when I started my permanent job because of the nature of the problems I now face. When I was an intern, it was "enough" to simply build things that work. As a fulltime employee though; few people are asking me if it's possible to build it (they hired me, I better make sure it is!). Now I'm being grilled on the quality of my algorithms or architecture. I'm being expected to give input (and justify!) on which technology to adopt and on design decisions I never had to worry about as an intern. I won't forget the time I went to present a project to my manager and he asked me to draw out the architecture. I was kind of surprised at how for some seconds my brain kind of froze trying to figure out what calls what and how I'm supposed to relay that on paper. I have a lot of things to learn; a lot of technologies to go deep in so I've given myself a year.

With that, let's move onto the technical bits; what programming languages will I focus on? I like programming languages and have dabbled with a few over the years but for problem relevance; I've decided to limit my choices to the ones most useful to my work. For me that means C#, JavaScript and the newest addition Go.

C# - I've grown to really appreciate C# and the .NET ecosystem for building solid enterprise-level backend systems _that last_. Generally, any nice stongly typed often OOP based language for me will do. Whilst I know Java is more open (what with Microsoft's grip on C#) and kind of more popular, I like C#'s cleaner (and lowkey prettier) syntax plus some of it's features as well (Extension functions! LINQ!). You also can't talk about C# as a backend dev without mentioning the .NET ecosystem. It's simple to use, well thought out and is the type of framework that doesn't completely lock me in if I don't want to use a their implementation of a particular service. I've worked on a few legacy systems as well and it's quite nice how.NET is more or less .NET whether it's version 8 or version 5. So I like it for graceful maintainability as well.

JavaScript - I probably won't use this quite a lot this year but it was the first language I unfortunately good at so it's still here. The main reason I keep it here is cause I might still need to touch the frontend (particularly the web) every now and then so it's still useful to have some JavaScript handy. I'm working on this blog for one thing and there are several web projects I know I'll need to know some JavaScript for.

Go - As I delve into more advanced topics in backend development (operating systems, networking etc); I's started to think about learning a low-level language. At first, I wanted to refresh my knowledge of C which is what I studied in school but then I discovered Go. Go is like the python of low-level languages lol. It's syntax is simple but it still packs a punch as a low level language; I personally wouldn't use it to build APIs as I still feel like I have to create a number of services I sort of get for free in C# and .NET becuse of it's pragamatic business application oriented design. You can use Go to build everything from CLIs to web servers but I currently use it to build services and other mostly background jobs.

Other than that; I also have a number of technologies I would like to study and will be talking about as I learn each one.
