# What's stopping us from having a Malawian Silicon Valley?

One great thing about living in this globalized world is that frequently; you see how things are done outside the country. Thanks to the internet and social media; you might catch a glimpse of life in a different country and if you get a chance to travel; it even becomes more real. Much of my feed on youtube of late has been filled with software engineers talking about how they develop software in other countries. Sometimes when I'm scrolling on LinkedIn; I'll also see other software engineers talk about their work and get inspired. As I share clips and discuss with friends and acquintances about life building software in other countries; I'd realized that in some small way this was the beginning of my pipe dream. 

What if we had this here? The scale of technical problems. Benefits. right here. If we had a thriving tech scene; local tech companies that employed _hundreds_ of Malawian software engineers; universities that churned out world class talent, domestic markets large enough to maybe even prompt big tech to open it's own branches in here so it can be a part of the action? Just thinking of the the new jobs, the new markets, the potentially better standard of living for millions of Malawians has me sighing.

Did you laugh? Yeah me too lol. 

Everyday my country **practically begs me to leave**. 

We're rationing sugar now. Again. Sometimes you pass by a filling station and anxiously wonder if a line forming means there will be a shortage. Again. Consistent blackouts have you memorising the unofficial electricity load shedding pattern. AGAIN. Some of my online domains have expired not because I don't have funds but because as of now my bank declines auto-renew cause of the Forex shortage. As if that isn't enough, We have elections coming up in a few months and if you're not a bit depressed; you probably stopped caring a while ago. I come from a relatively comfortable background and have a decent job to boot but even I will say that things feel a lot more expensive as well. 

When I scroll through another clip, post and talk by other software engineers - participating in the country's brain drain feels like the reasonable thing to do. The best thing to do. Deep down though. I wish I could stay. I recently went through the LinkedIn profile of an engineer with an impressive career path - solving big problems at big name companies and you know what stands out as you read each role they had? The location of the office they worked at - Bangalore, India. Their home. 

Living in Malawi sucks sometimes but dammit it's home. So yes. 

Why can't I have that?
