# 1. Design log: HATEOAS, HATEOAS, HATEOAS

I first came across HATEOAS during a code review. We were building a read intensive API and as part of the critique and suggestions to improve my initial design - I was asked to research HATEOAS. Now I never got to implement it in the API sadly (it was later scrapped by management) but even if I had to - I'll admit, I didn't get it.

HATEOAS stands for Hypermedia as the engine for Application state. It was a constraint proposed by Roy Fielding as part of his seminal work on REST. With HATEOAS, an application server provides information to the client through hypermedia. In case you're wondering what 'hypermedia' is, that's -  at least to my understanding; content you can interact with. 

So instead of a client requiring some sort of prior understanding as to how an application works to interact with it; the client learns about the application through discovery based on the response served by the application which in this case would be based on some sort of hypermedia.

Owkay. 

In some ways; you can see how the Internet runs using this sort of principle. Browsers (clients) don't really need to have some sort of prior agreement or documentation in order for them to interact with and render websites. They render based on the hypermedia served from the servers which in this case is HTML. 

Great. Back to APIs. 

The benefits of HATEOAS for APIs feel like a dream. Discovery based interaction could mean no more hard-coding of endpoints leading to flexible and resilient APIs. As a programmer that is still early-stage; I can't tell you how many tears I've shed because of API lock-in or having to maintain multiple versions of an API.

It could also mean that business logic could be enforced strictly from the backend. I'm someone who has a bias for optimizing for the general case - that is I want to design APIs that a web client, mobile client, desktop client, heck anything that can read http responses can use. Nevertheless, from interacting with other frontend team members and also seeing my work in production - I've been more accepting of injecting a little bit more pointedness and building my APIs as if I am building the entire application sans UI.

The part where I just don't get it though is how? How does the client (a web app or a mobile app) truly and seamlessly interact with the API in a discovery based manner as elegantly as possible? 

A lot of the articles on HATEOAS seem more focused on the design of the hypermedia(or rather on hacking JSON to be meaningful hypermedia) served by the API. Searching for the obvious question leads to roundabout answers like "the user still needs to know all actions beforehand" and the usual professional gaslighting on StackOverflow "why are you using JSON? just serve HTML" (Siiigh.)

Is true HATEOAS outside of the building the Internet use-case a pipe dream? Is it merely yet another acronym to add to my CV and feign API arhcitecting expertise?

