# 3. Dev log: To ORM or not to ORM? That is the question.

Ideally - I'd like to keep my server side application as simple as possible. Nevertheless, as I continued to design my MVC inspired architecture and implement the data layer - the more enticed I was by the idea of using an ORM.

In case you don't know, an ORM stands for Object Relational Mapper and is essentially an extra abstracted layer that allows you to perform operations on your database using your code. That means instead of writing raw sql; you define your models as objects and perform operations on those objects which then get mapped by the ORM library into raw sql. 

ORMs are popular for their (well ... for the most part) ease of use, enhanced security (little risk of sql injection attacks) and personally for me how they allow you to separate the implementation of your database from the business logic surrounding how data in your app is defined and managed. I like to think use of ORMS at work is what allow us to seamlessly collaborate with the separate team that manages those databases. Less back and forth whenever either team needs to change something. Not to mention that many of our apps deal with many models with many fields than not using an ORM would just be cumbersome.

As a result; when I thought about the benefits - I decided okay maybe having an ORM will be good for my app; particularly as it evolves in future. I googled GORM (I'd frequently seen it when it came to ORMS for Go) and started to peruse through the documentation and ... and you know what? Between the setup and the configuration; I kinda decided that maybe I don't need it?

Whilst I talked about the pros of using an ORM. There are a few cons as well. If you need to perform some complex queries or need to modify the database in a way that isn't offered by your ORM library of choice; you run the risk of entering hacker territory to get your app to work.

In my case, I thought about the fact that I primarily had one model which included other minor models. In my mind; I had an idea of how I could read and write table fields to and from these model of models using go's standard library. Perusing through the documentation; I was concerned that I'd end up creating many tables using the ORM instead of really just one because of my multi-model approach. After some thought, I decided I was too lazy to figure out how I could do it with the ORM and decided to use the standard library instead.

It could be becuase I'm using a Linux machine but setting up postgres and interacting with the database using psql was kind of fun. This is a pet project so whilst I would put a bit more thought into whether or not I should use an ORM - I decided the risks weren't that high. At any rate; it's always helpful to interact with and learn a bit more about the database as a backend developer.