# 4. Dev log: Go Reflection.

Having decided to work directly with the database; after setting up postgresql I got to work on creating the functions to interact with the database.

Interacting directly with the db from Go means that to create a query you do something like this. 

Maybe it's because I work with OOP a lot; but there was a little itch in my mind that was like, isn't there a way to just create generic functions so that any model can have CRUD operations? A part of the question came from a programming sensibility of not wanting to create custom code for each model. On the other I didn't want to enter in a bunch of properties when interacting with the functions.  

_"What? Are you essentially just vying for the the same type of abstraction that you would get, as you would in an ORM-"_

Shush.

_Anyway_

Running into similar problems building [go-utilities]() is what led me to learn about how [Generics](https://go.dev/doc/tutorial/generics) are supported in Go. As I explored the problems I wanted to solve here - I quickly realised that what I was suggesting was manipulating and perfoming operations on the inner stucture of any model. Scrolling through articles, stack overflow and the documentation eventually led me to explore another concept. Cue, Go [Reflection](https://go.dev/blog/laws-of-reflection).

Careful though, go reflection comes at a cost. Because you are inspecting the internal structure of a type at runtime; there will be a bit of a perfomance cost.

But convenience amirite?



